### <div align="center"> Redi Sunarta* - 1606888216 </div>
---
**Abstract:** The opportunity of a demographic dividend will become a disaster if the labor market cannot absorb the large supply, either because of mismatch or low human capital quality. In fact, Indonesia's proportion of young people classified as not working, attending education or training (NEET) is one of the highest in the Asian Region. In the long run, the accumulation of social losses that results can eliminate the opportunity due to they do not accumulate human capital. One possibility can explain this phenomenon is that an increase in non-labor income in-line with last decade's wealth growth which encourages people in the labor market to reduce their work hours or even get out of the market. They are present-oriented people who enjoy leisure time more than work. However, the Schooling Model predicts that they are more likely to enter the education system–not to be inactive. The estimation results of our model confirm the combination of these two classical theories. The youth from the wealthier family less likely to enter the labor market but have a greater probability to pursue higher education. Specifically NEET discussion, in general, we don not find a significant effect of increasing wealth on the likelihood to become NEET. In context wealthy NEET, we found that a very large increase in the value of wealth would actually provide a large probability but in real case the drastic increase of wealth in a short time is rarely found. Moreover, this phenomenon only applies to the 2014 per capita cohort and proxy expenditure. We should admit that the significance of this relationship depends on the measurement chosen. Therefore, we cannot make the conclusion that an increase in wealth will bring up the NEET wealthy phenomenon. 

**Keywords**: NEET, Wealth, Pure Income Effect, Indonesia.

\*Faculty of Economics and Business, Universitas Indonesia
